TITLE: Cadillac in Formula One

American car manufacturer General Motors (GM) is a Formula One constructor under the Cadillac brand as Cadillac Formula 1 Team, beginning with the 2026 season, and is expected to become a power unit manufacturer starting in 2029. GM will collaborate with American motorsports organization TWG Motorsports through the latter's British subsidiary, TWG Cadillac Formula 1 Team Limited.
Cadillac became the first new, independent constructor to join the grid since Haas in 2016. The project has three bases in the United States—in Fishers, Indiana, Concord, North Carolina, and Warren, Michigan, as well a British base in Silverstone. The engine department will be based in North Carolina.


== Background ==


=== Early GM engine involvement (1951–1953) ===

Several GM marques participated in the Indianapolis 500 when it counted towards the FIA World Championship of Drivers from 1950 to 1960:

1951: Gordon Reid entered a Chevrolet-engined Silnes car but failed to qualify.
1952: Johnny Fedricks entered a Cadillac-engined Kurtis Kraft car but failed to qualify.
1953: Bill Homeier entered a Cadillac-engined Kurtis Kraft car but failed to qualify.


=== Establishment (since 2023) ===
In January 2023, General Motors (GM) and the Michael Andretti–led Andretti Global announced their intention to enter GM's Cadillac brand into the Formula One World Championship. The FIA approved their bid but the Formula One Group vetoed it, explaining that it would reconsider its decision if GM agreed to manufacture Formula One engines. Following the rejection, Andretti continued to build up the team and operations using Toyota's wind tunnel in Cologne, which McLaren had recently vacated.
In November 2024, following extended disputes between the Formula One Group and Michael Andretti, Andretti Global sponsor TWG Global—led by Mark Walter—announced that it was taking over the business operation in areas such as sponsorship, infrastructure planning, and organizational growth. Michael Andretti remained as an advisor, while his father, Mario, agreed to serve on the board of directors. The team renamed its British subsidiary from Andretti Racing to Cadillac, and eventually TWG Cadillac Formula 1 Team Ltd.
That month, the Formula One Group tentatively approved Cadillac as a new constructor for the 2026 season. The entry received its final approval in March 2025, in time for Cadillac to sign the latest Concorde Agreement. Cadillac will be the first debutant Formula One venture since Haas in 2016. GM paid an expansion fee of US$450 million, over twice as much as originally demanded. In addition, GM announced that it would begin manufacturing engines for Cadillac for the 2029 season; until then, the team will compete with Ferrari engines. In November, Cadillac made its testing debut at Imola with Sergio Pérez driving a blank-liveried Ferrari SF-23.
The project has been described as part of an effort to expand American involvement in top-tier motorsport. Team representatives have emphasized community engagement, workforce development, and long-term competitiveness over short-term marketing aims.


== Constructor personnel ==

In December 2024, Cadillac hired the former Virgin and Marussia CEO, Graeme Lowdon, as team principal. Lowdon is overseen by Dan Towriss, the CEO of TWG Motorsports. The team has hired several alumni of "Team Enstone" in senior roles, including: Formula One chief technical officer Pat Symonds, operations officer Rob White, technical director Nick Chester, aerodynamicist Jon Tomlinson, and advisor Naoki Tokunaga. Former Scuderia Ferrari race engineer, Xavi Marcos, is chief race engineer.
In March 2025, Lowdon said that he intended to hire drivers based on merit, although he "[saw] no reason why an American driver [could not] be selected on merit". Mario Andretti had stated that the team planned to pair an experienced driver with a younger American driver, who would likely be Andretti Global driver Colton Herta. Five months later, Cadillac announced former World Drivers' Championship runners-up Sergio Pérez and Valtteri Bottas as their inaugural driver line-up, citing their experience over American options such as Herta and Josef Newgarden. Herta later agreed to become a test driver and depart IndyCar for FIA Formula 2 in 2026 with support from Cadillac. Simon Pagenaud, Pietro Fittipaldi, Charlie Eastwood, and Alec Udell also joined the team as simulator drivers. In January 2026, Bottas' former Sauber teammate Zhou Guanyu joined the team as their reserve driver.


== Power unit program ==
GM and TWG established GM Performance Power Units LLC (GM PPU) to produce works engines for the Cadillac team, and hired longtime GM engine designer Russ O'Blenes to lead the engine division. In addition, Joe Saward reported that GM was seeking to purchase the intellectual property of Renault's former power unit program. GM PPU plans to produce Formula One power units for the 2029 season, using Ferrari power units until then. GM PPU announced that it plans to spend US$65–70 million building an engine factory for 300–350 employees, which is expected to open in the first quarter of 2027, and an additional US$75–80 million in start-up fees.


== Facilities ==

Cadillac plans to operate four facilities, in: Fishers, Indiana; Concord, North Carolina; Warren, Michigan; and Northamptonshire, England. The organization will be headquartered at a brand-new facility in Fishers—a suburb of Indianapolis—which will handle "the bulk" of manufacturing. Andretti Global initially suggested that it would base its Formula One and IndyCar operations in same building, but the IndyCar operation was ultimately moved to a different facility; Formula One regulations prohibit the use of multi-team facilities. GM will build a 204,000-square foot power unit facility near its Charlotte Technical Center in Concord. Additional operations will take place in Warren—the location of the General Motors Technical Center. In addition, the team has signed a long-term agreement with Toyota to rent their wind tunnel in Cologne, Germany. The race team, competing under an American racing licence, and chassis designers will operate from a facility in Silverstone, England.


== Complete Formula One World Championship results ==


=== As an engine supplier ===


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website